Well, here's the question we want to ask this morning.
Is it actually possible to speed up the day of Jehovah?
Well, if we look at our text this morning in 2 Peter chapter 3, and verse 11, we've had
that red for us, so we know that expression at the end that we should consider what sort
of people you ought to be in holy acts of conduct and deeds of godly devotion.
But then it goes on to say, as you await and keep close in mind the presence of the day
of Jehovah.
Well now if you look at the footnote on this expression in verse 12, you'll notice that
the expression keep close in mind literally means to speed up the day of Jehovah.
Well now how can we do that?
Well, it's true, we cannot bring the day forward of Jehovah even one day, nor can we
move it back even one day.
That is not within our power.
That day is set.
But how can we then speed up the day of Jehovah as it says there in verse 12?
Well we keep that day close in our mind.
We never let it be out of our sight.
As the footnote also says, we eagerly desire it.
Well now if we're persons like that, Peter says that we're going to be busy in deeds of
godly devotion.
Well now just as a quick reminder, what is godly devotion?
Well just looking at our new world translation glossary, here's the definition.
Well what do we get from that definition?
You notice reverence, worship, service?
You see godly devotion is not passive, it's active.
It's reflected in action and inactivity.
Well that's why the Apostle Peter used the expression in verse 11 deeds.
Well what are some of the ways that we demonstrate this quality?
Well as some of them are just very small, for example, what about hospitality?
In 1 Peter chapter 4 and verse 9, when the Apostle Peter wrote his first letter,
he said, be hospitable to one another without grumbling.
Well there are so many opportunities for us to imitate Jehovah and be hospitable to share
with others according to their needs and this really is an expression not only for another person,
but it's an expression of our love for Jehovah, our desire to want to imitate him.
Well we all acknowledge that, but here's the question, when was the last time that you
acted hospitably or when was the last time I acted hospitably?
You see, it's not enough just to love the quality of hospitality.
If we're going to have deeds of godly devotion, we're going to have to practice it.
Here's another one, what about helping the elderly that are in our midst?
You know our elderly brothers need help, they need help to get to the meetings,
they need help to get out in the field ministry.
Some of them are confined to their homes, well if that's the case,
and they may need help from younger ones to assist them with shopping or doing errands
or just doing some chore around the house.
Well that's something that has been mentioned in many Watchtower articles.
It's been mentioned at many conventions and assemblies, it's been mentioned at many congregation meetings,
but now here's a question.
When was the last time that you did something for an elderly brother or sister?
Or when was the last time I did?
You see, we need to think about not just loving these ideas, but what are we doing to really help?
See that's showing deeds of godly devotion.
Well of course we also have to think about the more major things.
What about attending our congregation meetings?
Hebrews chapter 10 verses 23 to 25, that scripture that we quote so many times
says that we should not forsake our meeting together,
but it goes on to say that we should encourage one another.
So it's not enough just to be at the meeting,
when we're there we want to reach out and do everything that we can to encourage our brothers
and really participate in the meeting.
You see, godly devotion is not passive, it's active.
And so what sort of persons ought we to be when we're at the meeting?
Well, we know we want to be active, fully involved with the program.
But now of course what's the most important way that we exercise these deeds of godly devotion?
Well you'll remember that the Apostle Paul in 1 Timothy chapter 3 and verse 16
referred to the sacred secret of godly devotion.
And he showed there that Jesus really was that secret.
You see, he was the one who demonstrated godly devotion in a perfect sense.
Now Paul in that verse, 1 Timothy 3, 16 went on to say that Jesus was preached among the nations.
Well then that really is a vital part of our deeds of godly devotion.
Preaching about Christ Jesus, His kingdom and everything that will be accomplished.
But brothers, how much incentive we have today to be involved fully in our preaching work?
We have tools today like we have never had before.
You know, over the summer as I was attending a number of different regional conventions
and different parts of the world, I enjoyed so much, no doubt just as you have,
using the JW Library app.
And downloading the Why Study the Bible video in a number of different languages.
We had one real interesting experience when we were in Europe.
We got into a taxi with a driver from Africa and right away we asked him what his language was.
Well he told us it was a language not familiar to us at all.
But while he was driving, we managed to download the Why Study the Bible video.
And it automatically began to play as we were in the car.
Well as soon as the man heard it, he started shouting, what's happening?
What's happening? I think he thought he was hearing a voice from heaven when he heard his own language in the taxi.
But we reassured him that that was not the case.
But he was so moved. He almost didn't want to take the fare if you can imagine.
And initially he had been quite unfriendly.
But when he saw what was available on our website, he was deeply moved.
Well maybe you've had a similar experience.
Just as a note of future reference, probably not a good idea to play the video when someone's driving.
Well if we have real godly devotion that's active.
We're going to be busy in doing deeds of godly devotion.
You know there's an old saying that says, time flies when you're having fun.
Well you know even scientists acknowledge that there's truth in that.
A study that was published in the year 2012 in the journal Psychological Science said this.
Although we tend to believe that time flies when we're having a good time.
These studies indicate that what it is about the enjoyable time that causes it to go by more quickly.
It seems to be the goal pursuit or achievement directed action we're engaged in that matters.
Just being content or satisfied may not make time fly.
But being excited or actively pursuing a desired object can.
Isn't that interesting?
When of where the sort of persons that are busy with holy acts of conduct and deeds of godly devotion.
Reaching out for that most important goal of everlasting life.
We will speed up the coming of the day of Jehovah in our hearts and our minds.